# U2-asessment
[Addressing Operating Systems]
operating systems are the foundation on modern computing, they support a computers basic functions. Operating systmes ubuiquity makes them a target for exploitation for malicous purposes. If attackers were to gain unauthorized access through your OS it could have major consequences. Knowing how to protect your operating system can you as an individual or your buisness.
One common flaw in most operating systems is a software vulnrability, these are mistakes found in earlier software that now needs to be updated. Companys software isn't always perfect and updating to the latest patch will corerect any found errors and make them no longer exploitable. "Operating system vulnerabilities represent critical weak points in the security infrastructure of any digital system." from ituonline confirms that operating systems can be vulnrable. Through an operating system attackers can gain escalating privalige and do the most harm. Often you will see programming errors that will be later corrected by a patch. A zero-day exploit is a vulnrability found before the vendor has released the software, in some cases companys will even pay you to find a zero-day. All these vulnrabilites but what happens if someone really exploits them.
Attackers often use these common exploits for nefarious purposes. For example when a privilage escalation is done attackers can disable security, install malware, or take special data. In other words System compromise, malware spread, and data breach. As a result of these attacks against a company they can get hit with a lawsuit on toop of the damages for the company not taking resonable precausions to protect their data. johnfbakerlaw would confirm with the staement  "Consumers would allege that the company did not take reasonable precautions to protect their data."  Reducing all risks is beneficial.
understanding how these vulnrabilities work will help you fortify your operating system. Patch management is an effective way of hardening OS as well as improves system preformance. Patch management is when you update all systems and drivers to protect against vulnrabilities.  Companys software isn't always perfect and updating to the latest patch will corerect any found errors and make them no longer exploitable. Doing this lowers the risk of a vulnrabilitiy. "Patch management is more benefit than burden." says intel.com 
Operating systems can be your weakest link if not properly protected. Theyre are many flaws to be exploited but you can reduce the risk with things like patch management to protect your data.

Operating System Vulnerablilities. Understanding Operating System Vulnerabilities. https://www.ituonline.com/blogs/operating-system-vulnerabilities/#:~:text=The%20most%20common%20types%20of,software%2C%20or%20insecure%20software%20integrations. Accessed 10 May 2024.
Weblinx. “Is a Company Liable for Being Hacked?” John F. Baker Law, 26 Aug. 2020, www.johnfbakerlaw.com/is-a-company-liable-for-being-hacked/#:~:text=A%20lawsuit%20based%20on%20data,likely%20path%20to%20a%20lawsuit. Accesed May 10 2024.Weblinx. “Is a Company Liable for Being Hacked?” John F. Baker Law, 26 Aug. 2020, www.johnfbakerlaw.com/is-a-company-liable-for-being-hacked/#:~:text=A%20lawsuit%20based%20on%20data,likely%20path%20to%20a%20lawsuit. 
Patch management helps IT teams eliminate bugs, promote productivity. “What Is Patch Management? Benefits and Best Practices.” Intel, www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/business/enterprise-computers/resources/patch-management.html#:~:text=Patch%20management%20is%20the%20process,performance%20of%20systems%2C%20boosting%20productivity. Accessed 10 May 2024. 
